# Permethrin-Learning-Larvae
R script/datasets created and used during my M2 internship on the early effect of permethrin on Kryptolebias marmoratus, a self-fertilized fish.

It is well-known that early stages of animal life are particularly sensitive periods to environmental disturbances. For example, permethrin, one of the most widely used neurotoxic insecticides across the world, can be found in high concentration in aquatic environment and has already shown to negatively impact freshwater organisms’ survival. However, in fishes, few studies have investigated how permethrin may affect behavior, cognitive abilities and the molecular mechanisms underlying such potential effects. The main objective of this study is therefore to determine the immediate impact of permethrin exposure during early life stages on life-history traits (growth, survival), behavior (locomotion, thigmotaxis), cognition (habituation, light/dark activity) and associated gene expression in juveniles of the mangrove rivulus Kryptolebias marmoratus. The mangrove rivulus is unique among vertebrates due to its ability to self-fertilize, thus producing natural homozygous individuals within isogenic lineages while maintaining a high degree of phenotypic plasticity. By working with minimal genetic variation, this species can provide valuable insights into how the environment including chemical pollutants can impact both morphological and behavioral/cognitive phenotypes without a change in the genotype. 

Here we exposed juveniles to 3 concentrations of permethrin (0, 5 and 200 µg/L) from 0 to 7 days post-hatching (dph). We first evaluated the impact of exposure on individual survival and growth. We then performed light/dark and tapping tests at 7dph in order to measure possible effects of permethrin on locomotion, activity, thigmotaxis and habituation to a mechanical stimulus. In addition, we planned to study expression of genes of interest that are involved in cognition and behavior using RT-qPCR. Our preliminary results showed that permethrin is indeed a toxic and harmful molecule for our model because it reduces the probability of survival of larvae during exposure. Others data are currently being analyzed and will be presented soon. 

PM exposure during development significantly affected the behavior of juveniles, hypoactivity and a reduced anxiety-like behavior for exposed individuals compared to control fish was observed. The resulting smaller, slower, and less mobile fish also proved to have lower cognitive capacities. However, no effect on gene expression and gene methylation was found. We therefore provided evidence that PM has adverse immediate effects on phenotype and behavior in Kryptolebias marmoratus larvae.
